we were going to go travel the world
together and jump off of things together
and he got married and then had kids and
stayed stayed uh in
Cleveland and for a lot of years I felt
this story that I had left him
behind and that he was missing out but
the life that he lived was not a life
where he stayed home yeah it's the life
where he dove in to to his family yeah
and
that flipped for me I I felt a sense of
oh like wow
that that [__] life that he's lived
man welcome back to the art of
accomplishment where we explore living
the life you want with enjoyment and
ease and that sounds in stark contrast
to our topic
today oh my God
So Different yeah so the topic we go
into today is on death and
dying the death of the ego the death of
self the imminent death of Brett's
brother and death of people we loved
yeah living a lifestyle of people dying
around you
and living a lifestyle of being present
to the death that's happening in you and
around you all the time in all the
different ways yeah and the freedom that
it can offer
here we go let's do it let's do it so
years years ago when
I when I started Bas jumping I remember
reading an internet
Forum with a bunch of anonymous jumpers
talking about the sport talking about
what it's like to live a life in the
sport and I'll never forget one of the
quotes that somebody had made
was that you're going to get into this
Sport and you're going to meet some of
the most amazing people some of the most
incredible people you've ever met in
your
life diverse
talented full of life and you're going
to become best friends with many of
them and then one by
one they're going to start dying in
front of
you and when I first read that I of
course was like whoa I got to like lean
back in my chair a little bit and
process this yeah and there was a part
of me that was just like this is insane
what are you doing
and I also can't deny that there was a
part of me that
was you know 18-year-old kid my entire
adult life ahead of me and I was like
you know
what sign me up I don't know what's
coming but sign me up something about
that sounds like a life worth
living and I want to find out what that
is
what was
that yeah there's layers to it I think
maybe the first layer was you know
growing up on you
know Saving Private Ryan and War movies
and like there's there's an experience
that people can have together when it's
tough and when it's hard yeah that can
be really bonding and that people grow
through yeah and I want to grow you know
I didn't want to live what I'd consider
consider to be a kind of stale corporate
lifestyle that like left me sitting in a
box I wanted to get out there and live
yeah and so one correlate to living life
for me was to be risking it yeah it's
funny because I don't even the idea that
there's a safe interior is a yeah is an
illusion that doesn't
fully allow yourself to see the the
reality of death yeah there is no
everybody
dies everything ends yeah I'm curious
how so I'm listening to the story and
I'm like fascinating and there's
something even more fascinating to me is
that you're brother has got brain cancer
and he's not doing well right now how
does how does that like how does this oh
I wanted to like risk my life and you've
had many of your friends die that
reality that you read
was exactly what happened to you and
you've lost many friends and You'
mourned many friends and you've learned
to mourn many
friends and to just to start off with
like how is it right now to
just how are you doing with the fact
that your brother
is close to death and not even fully
here
anymore yeah
I mean first I question there's there's
a way that he's actually doing
extraordinarily well right and it's not
medically um has nothing to do with his
longevity yeah however he's doubled so
far the original prognosis of his
lifespan for context he has stage four
gasta brain
cancer yeah diagnosed while we were on a
retreat together
in yeah May
2023 yeah how are you doing with the
fact that your brother's
dying
yeah it's both facts it's the fact that
he's dying and the fact that he's here
just like for all of us and I've been
I've been learning this from from him in
the way that he's been experiencing it
he's as he's been going deeper and
deeper through this process he's been
finding more and more gratitude and more
and more joy in whatever moment there is
and so there's there's a way that it
feels like the density of life is like
compressing for him mhm in this really
beautiful way Y and something that's
different for me about this experience
than the dozens of people that I've
known over the years who have died since
that initial story yeah is that for most
of them they were surprises they were
accidents so maybe not a surprise like
be like okay I can see this one coming
from a mile away I just don't know when
it's going to
happen but when it happens you don't
have a chance to say goodbye yeah
there's no closure it's just gone and so
more of an earthquake less of a
hurricane right right and this is the
hurricane yeah Hurricane for me I'm sort
of on the peripheral I live across the
country I have you know I've I've lived
a different life than my most of my
family who lives very close to one
another in Ohio and so for them there's
like that's the eye of the hurricane and
I'm sort of on one of the Spiral
arms in some sense it's like core like
this is my older brother yeah this is my
this is my family and I've never had had
a loss in my immediate family
before yeah I had a um I have a couple
death stories I had a friend case who
I'm sure we've spoken about on the
podcast before
and case uh got diagnosed with
cancer lymphatic cancer non hogin I
think it something like
that and in that eminent death he woke
up he had an Awakening where he saw
through his personality
and who he became who he saw himself as
was Universal right one with everything
he was stoked it was great then found
out that he got cured of the cancer and
it all went
away and um and then I got to know him
and then he got cancer again and was
curing the cancer and died of a heart
attack but I asked him you know when it
came when you came back to being alive
like and you knew you were going to live
in the The Awakening went away for you
how did
you how did you like come back to the
Awakening and he said oh it's like when
I found out I realized it was never
gone and there's something about what
you just said in oh compressing of a
life there's a way in
which when we acknowledge
death not just the death
of my brother's going to die but the
death of I'm never going to be who I was
yesterday
I'm parts of me die all the time my
identity dies on a regular
basis when we really acknowledge that
everything is fleeting and I don't mean
it just intellectually I mean like
physically viscerally acknowledge it
there's something that
happens that is very
much compresses life so to speak
everything becomes sweeter or more
vibrant or more
meaningful yeah there's a
phenomenon often described by people in
in the sport or in life in general who
have a near-death experience where
there's that oh [__] there I was and
being eaten by the bear moment yeah yeah
and often times as people reflect and
I've had these experiences I I can
reflect on in that moment what I would
have anticipated feeling as I'm freef
falling toward rocks and I'm not sure my
parach Sheet's going to open cuz
something's anomalous or weird that I
would anticipate feeling
Terror and often what actually happens
is a sense of Peace yeah and people
describe that and they're like well that
that's just kind of bizarre I had that
experience and then you know they turn
away from it because it was it was
brought up in this like intense moment
but there's there's ways that these
intense moments can simply make us aware
of what's already there the way that you
describe with case yeah
and it what's interesting is I I do see
that the acknowledgement of our death
the
fleetingness like best case scenario the
last person to remember me is going to
be two from 2,000 years if you're super
lucky like 2,000 years yeah if if that's
even luck right but the most likely
scenario is that like in 50 years there
will be no memory of me with anybody
ever and so like to fully allow that
in to mourn that to
feel that all the way
really makes the self very
unimportant and I think that that's what
death does on some level is
like when we almost die when
we somebody dies it it like rips a hole
through what we think is reality and it
says see there's really there's this big
Abyss there's this big nothingness you
might not want to look at it but that's
that's the
deal and going into it is creates a can
create a tremendous amount of relief and
freedom it's often when you hear me
talking about going into the abyss when
someone's like scared of something and I
say oh go into the abyss I'm not
pointing at anything significantly
different then it's going into the place
you're scared of and the place you're
scared of is where you don't exist MH
where or what you think you are changes
dramatically and it and it and it can be
seen seen really in every moment every
moment that we exist there's a death
there's some part of me that's not going
to ever exist
again so even if I'm remembered like is
it the one that is speaking now that's
remembered or is it the one from five
years ago that was remember I can't even
remember the one five years ago that
walked around as Joe Hudson there's
something about the reality of death
that allows it you said it really well
compresses life
and you you can press it enough and it's
it's it like it becomes everything and
nothing yeah yeah we used always say the
closer you get to death the closer you
get to life at the same time right so
what what's the value
in in in exploring this in recognizing
the way that they're dying every moment
the way that their relationship is dying
every moment the way that their company
their vision is changing every second
and is never what it was before like
what what are the ways in which we can
recognize and be close to and have a
relationship with death in our daily
life yep that isn't say like morbid
Naval gazing gazing you know that's so
funny yeah there's nothing in me that
feels like any of it's morbid it feels
like so life affirming but I understand
the question or how somebody would come
up with that thought process
so the the way I would say it is if
you're in a
business and you don't want to see
reality as it is you're not going to do
very well in that business doesn't mean
that you don't want to change it it
doesn't mean that you don't want to
influence it but to just know what's
actually happening to really have the
real data of the situation changes the
way that you're going to do that
business and it changes how effective
you're going to
be similarly if you really understand
the reality of life and death if you
really sit with the fact that there's a
truth that we will all
die there's a moment that's like oh and
then there's a moment of great relief
there's a moment of seeing
through the illusion and so for me my
personal story around this
was I Came Upon a question what am
I and and in that there's this
recognition of oh wait there's a way in
which everything is
fleeting everything is moving and if and
I remember reading the story of Buddha's
Awakening and apparently the first thing
he said so The Story Goes is coming
coming going going everything comes and
goes there's
a and the recognition of that may be
scary at first but at some point there's
a piece to it because life doesn't it it
can't be personal anymore when you
realize you're not your thoughts because
you can't even control them you can't
even decide what your next thought's
going to be you can't even stop them so
that that can't be you right and I'm not
my emotions because it's the same thing
I can't control them they just come and
go there's a way in which there's a like
a peace that's available because there's
not this constant struggle to maintain a
life an identity a sense of self that
inherently is flawed weak vulnerable
constantly
dying and to not take life personally is
really an amazing an
amazing feeling of
freedom and I'm talking about an extreme
but if you make it really realistic and
like right away there was something that
whoever is listening to got triggered by
six years ago it triggered when somebody
said something to them and today that
thing that triggered them doesn't
trigger them anymore because they don't
take it personally anymore and so if you
just take that freedom and you times it
by a billion that's the freedom you feel
when you realize everything
just dies everything moves everything
there's no such thing as some stability
and instead of oh my God what am I going
to do it becomes oh there's a lot of
freedom and first you jump off and
you're like I'm falling then you realize
there's no bottom then you're like I'm
flying this is fantastic yeah and so
that's that's the situation is just that
knowing of everything is d everything's
dead everything you can't you can't
survive this yeah there's also the
there's the aspect of like you don't
know what you've had until you're at
faced with losing it and a kind of fun
Twist on that is you don't know what
pillars of identity for example your
life is built on until you are faced
with losing them yeah in many in many
instances so for myself yeah I've had
years of my life where my all of my AC
acties and my thoughts were organized
around a pattern of living that I wasn't
aware was actually meant to avoid the
death of some aspect of myself that was
Yeah Toast anyway right on a long
timeline exactly even a short enough
timeline you know like yeah the and and
this can happen in a relationship too if
you have the ideal of a relationship and
you're defending that that ideal is
reality rather than discovering what
reality is throughout the process and
allowing your IDE ideas of it to die
yeah then more and more in your life has
to be some form of swimming back
Upstream against the tide yeah so make
it real for me there's this death
happening in your life right now with
your brother like what yeah part of you
is being asked to die what part of
you like what's
happening in that experience for you
let me think about
that right immediately what I notice is
in you and me probably in the audience
it's like this happens
this yeah like it's almost a
vacuum and that is the sematic
experience of what we're often
avoiding yeah and one one of the first
things that came to me that that that I
had to die
was uh I had had a story that you know
years ago my brother and I got into
skydiving together basically around the
same time and had this you know we we
started my business together we were
going to go travel the world together
and jump off of things together and he
got married and then had kids and stayed
stayed uh in
Cleveland and for a lot of years I felt
this story that I had left him behind
and that he was missing
out
and hadn't recognized how subconsciously
lodged that story had been yeah and some
sense of guilt like I need to go back
sometime and free him in some way I
don't know bring him into my business
like there was just something going on
yeah that was just nonsensical but it
was in the background of my of my
awareness for years and then very
quickly upon hearing the news of his
cancer
immediately that flipped and I was like
he now has two kids in their early
teens that he never could have had if he
was on the adventure we were on together
if he stay maybe in some other
machination that could have occurred but
right but the life that he lived was not
a life where he stayed home yeah it's
the life where he dove in to to his
family yeah
and that flipped for me I felt a sense
of not envy but a sense of like oh like
wow
that that [__] life that he's lived
man like wow right I just so the the
story fell away that that we were on
some different level somehow and that
like I had escaped and he hadn't or that
I had abandoned him and he all of that
fell away it's like the only thing that
can be there is the now cuz it's the
only thing you know you've got he's not
dead today all you really have is like
this moment with
him and somehow or another our stories
don't get to exist in that moment and
and
similarly when you acknowledge your own
death your stories of yourself don't get
to really like what what does it mean
that you didn't get your house by the
time you were 40 when you're dead what
the [__] does that mean yeah what does
it mean that you didn't make enough
spiritual progress you didn't develop
enough you didn't build a billion dollar
business there's two people one guy
built a billion dollar business and he's
dead and somebody didn't build a billion
dollar dis business and he's dead like
what the or she's dead like what the
[__] doesn't make a difference we don't
even know all the people who built
billion dollar businesses today and they
sure as how won't be remembered any more
than and and if you're remembered what
does that matter if you're dead I'm dead
but I'm remembered like
who all of these things that the e hangs
on to the stories just don't get to
don't get to survive death there's
something really sweet
about the fact that that that's that's
our reality that we don't get to taste
if we don't acknowledge it and so I have
this poem and so I was talking about
case I think earlier and
um this is what I wrote at his
funeral I wrote um at your funeral even
in the the full light of recognition
that we cannot survive this life we
cannot help but pretend we are
forever we see there hasn't been a
second we have survived ceaseless and
delivering are our every dying moments
that we throw together and project into
an unknown
future I Fall to my knees in gratitude
for this illusion of
me it is what has allowed me to laugh
and cry with you
my
friend and is what allows me to feel the
endless depth of missing you
now oh wellow yeah and there's just a
there's just a sweetness that you don't
get to
touch if you don't acknowledge
that the
death the void the emptiness
yeah reminds me of the last time I was
with my brother yeah and my
sister you know of course the the the
plan is
to miraculously cure brain
cancer and
also by
acknowledging acknowledging the
situation that we were able to have the
moment where my brother held my sister
and I close he's the older brother both
of us yeah and he was able to just say
hey it's been an honor to grow up with
both of
you yeah and that's something I've never
got with any of my friends who died they
never had a moment to say something like
that to me they just it's like they went
around the corner and never came
back and having that happen so many
times in my life
is gotten me into the practice of always
saying goodbye like it's the last time
because it might
be
and there's a there's a Sweetness in the
reality that now when it is my brother
my my biological brother yeah
who's facing
death at any unknown time
that that I actually do have time to
have these moments with him yeah like I
never had
with many of my many of the people close
to me yeah and if we were not
acknowledging
the we'll call it the
possibility that anytime I see him could
be the last we wouldn't be having the
kinds of conversations that we've had we
wouldn't have we wouldn't be having the
moments we're having together in the
time that we have now yeah and when when
he first told me about the
cancer and I stepped away we continued
facilitating The Retreat we were
facilitating I remember that and then
after it was done I like that's when my
processing really
began
and I called them back up and I was like
Scott
so realistically there's a reality where
we could have spent the rest of our
lives seeing each other every couple of
years
and you know making small talk around
the kids or whatever and having
conversations about business and stuff
going on in the
world and then there's a world where
maybe you're not here for another
year and in that amount of time there's
a world where we can have a deeper
relationship than we ever would have had
otherwise yeah and so let's lean into
that yeah that's the opportunity because
when that acknowledgement is there
then you get that deeper opportunity
every every time every moment
it's almost as though the the way that
that those words that I read on the base
jumping Forum hit me was in that part
where it's like here's a way that all of
your stories can be ripped
away right that's the promise
of of that kind of sport even if it
doesn't
happen forever when you're flying and
there you're near death and all the
stories go away and there's just this
moment there's just the now that you get
to live
in and all that's required is you to
just
see the truth of what you
are the truth of your fleetingness and
then that's life can become that flow
yeah and it can be a one minute Wings
suit flight or it can be a lifestyle it
can
be
awesome yeah yeah and and I'm just
really sorry that your brother's dying
man me too
yeah and he's really [__] living and
he's really [__]
living yeah yeah it's changed my concept
of what living might entail yeah you
know when he when he told me a few weeks
ago he's just like yeah I'm just lying
in bed some days I can't even move I
can't get out of bed but when I just
hear the door opening and closing with
my kids running in and out of the house
playing
I'm I could never be
happier
yeah yeah so my my stories of what I
require to enjoy my life [__] gone
like but my Tea's too
hot yeah
yeah awesome yeah thank you Joe thank
you man
[Music]